with retouching I've always found it to
be helpful to watch other people work on
projects from start to finish and that's
exactly what we're gonna do here well
take a pretty simple approach and we'll
be working on this photograph of
world-class Ironman champion Chris
Liette oh and this is a raw file that
was captured with the Canon 5d Mark - so
let's go ahead and start off by opening
this image up in Adobe Camera Raw press
command or ctrl R to open the file up
now here you'll notice that I've
modified this image just slightly added
a little bit of exposure worked on fill
light and made a few other really simple
adjustments well we want to do all of
our raw work as needed and then we want
to go down to our workflow options here
we're going to decide how big of a file
we actually want to work on now let's
say that we know this image will be
printed pretty small or in my case I
know this is a demo so to speed up my
demo I'm going to go ahead and choose a
smaller size here now you don't have to
do this step but again just for demo
purposes it will help things run a
little bit more quickly
next we'll click OK and then from there
click open image this will then open up
this raw file inside of Photoshop
once this image is open in Photoshop we
want to start to analyze things one of
things that I notice is I like the
overall image but I wish I had more
light here in the eyes and whenever we
see something like that we always want
to ask yourself this question is there
something that we could do in Camera Raw
in order to bring out more of that
detail well from a real simple
perspective we could go back to Adobe
bridge we could reopen this image in
Camera Raw press command or control R we
could then change the exposure or change
the fill light or change the contrast
whatever it is that we need to do we
could do this really focusing in on the
problem area or the area that we want to
enhance next if you hold down option or
alt it changes open to open copy now
when you click on open copy what will
happen is it'll open another version of
this file
so that in Photoshop will have two
documents open side-by-side
well what about Adobe bridge well if we
go back there we just have that original
raw file nothing's changed at all and
this concept is actually really quite
important and what the concept is is
that when you're processing your images
in Adobe Camera Raw keep in mind that
what you can do is process a couple of
different ways and then you can open up
different versions of your file and then
combine those together in Photoshop
alright well let's jump over to
Photoshop press command option o on a
Mac ctrl alt o on windows first thing we
need to do is to hold down the shift key
and click and drag one image into
another next press F to go to full
screen View mode and then press the
spacebar key and position the image near
the top of the screen that way you'll
have good posture you won't be looking
down but rather up or straight forward
now let's save this file we'll do that
by going to file and choosing save as
what we want to do is save this as a
tiff save all the layers of course and
embed our color profile click Save
alright we'll go ahead and click OK
there as well well now that we have this
image here before we actually begin to
work on an issue or make enhancements I
like to look at the file and I'll do
that without this top layer and I like
to look at it at 100% to do that double
click the zoom tool then press the
spacebar key and click and drag to
reposition all I want to do here is get
familiar with the detail that I have is
the image sharp do I have enough good
detail and yeah I think we have
sharpness where we need it we have some
good detail this gives us a feel for
some of the things that we might want to
do when retouching then we start to zoom
out when we zoom out we'll see more
global problems in this case I notice I
wish I had some more light in the eyes
here I also wish the forehead was a bit
darker well first let's work on the
light in the eyes in order to do that
we'll turn on this top layer well go
ahead and name this top layer brighten
next we'll hold down option or alt and
click on the add layer mask icon which
creates a layer map
filled with black well here what I'm
gonna do then is grab my brush and I'll
paint with white with a real low opacity
ten or fifteen percent or so and I'll
zoom back in I'll make my brush nice and
small really small here and I'm gonna go
ahead and just start to paint really
subtly over some of these shadow areas
now as we start to do this we're not
gonna see anything dramatic initially so
it's going to be some little teeny
adjustments here I'll go ahead and just
start to bring in some light into this
area and the nice thing about using
Camera Raw is that Camera Raw just taps
into the full power of the image I mean
there's so much information there and
the way that Camera Raw processes images
is so strong that this can really help
out all right well we're bringing in
some nice brightness here but we're also
introducing a little issue no big deal
we'll fix that in just a second I'll
zoom out a bit and then I'm gonna go
ahead and work on a couple of these
other little shadows here just
diminishing some of the shadows that I'm
noticing I think would be nice to take
back a little bit then what I want to do
is look at my before and after here we
have before and then after
well one of the issues I'm noticing is a
bit of a color shift we can change this
layer blending mode to luminosity and
sometimes that will give us just what we
need before and then after
gives us that brightening effect without
all of the color shift okay with a
little bit bigger brush I'm just gonna
go ahead and add an even more light to
this area I'm just looking to brighten
up the eyes a bit I don't want to go
overboard but just add a nice little
effect feather out my brush strokes
there too just to soften things up a bit
before and after okay well now that
we've worked on the eyes they're a
little bit what else could use some
brightening well how about the jacket
make the brush a little bit bigger
press v to go to 50% opacity I'm just
gonna go ahead and paint around on this
jacket to bring in a little bit more
detail also the neck there because the
lower portion of the image is just a bit
too dark for me so again just painting
in some of these adjustments here and
I'm going pretty quickly don't need to
be too particular about this
and as we paint this in we can bring in
more of the effect into certain areas
I think that's looking just fine I brush
a little bit bigger press eight to go to
80% just bring in a touch more over here
I think that's good here we have our
first step before and then after just
taking advantage of Camera Raw and
looking at how we can use Camera Raw to
output two different versions of our
photograph so that we can then combine
those together inside a Photoshop all
right stage one is complete let's go
ahead and save this file press command
or ctrl s to save and then I'll catch up
with you in the next movie